## Tutorial

This tutorial will take you from a new github project to a good overview of the `nobuild` framework. 

If you don't already have a repository cloned or created locally. Follow this guide. [Github](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository)

## Start

1. Copy the `./nobuild.h` file found at the root of this repository [nobuild.h](https://github.com/coffeebe4code/nobuild/blob/master/nobuild.h)
  - to the root of your repository.
2. Copy the starter `./demo/nobuild.c` file found in this demo folder [nobuild.c](https://github.com/coffeebe4code/nobuild/blob/master/demo/nobuild.c)
  - to the root of your repository.
  - the demo contents should appear as follows.

> ./nobuild.c
```c
#define NOBUILD_IMPLEMENTATION
#define CFLAGS "-Wall", "-Werror", "-std=c11"
#include "./nobuild.h"

int main(int argc, char **argv) {
  BOOTSTRAP(argc, argv);
  return 0;
}
```
  - if you wish to use a different compiler you can add another line `#define CC "clang"`
  - the file structure should appear as follows. You may or may not have the LICENSE, .gitignore, and README depending on if you initialized your own git repo, or did it through github in the browser.

```
> ls -a
.git
.gitignore
LICENSE
README.md
nobuild.h
nobuild.c
```

3. Build `nobuild`. You will have to do this any time, you modify your `./nobuild.c` file!

```
> gcc ./nobuild.c -o ./nobuild
```

4. Initialize your repository as a `nobuild` project.

```
> ./nobuild --init
[INFO] MKDIRS: target/nobuild
[INFO] MKDIRS: obj
[INFO] MKDIRS: exes
[INFO] MKDIRS: src
[INFO] MKDIRS: tests
[INFO] MKDIRS: include
```

  - this created a few directories. 
    - `src` will contain all your c source files.
    - `tests` will contain all your test files.
    - `obj` will contain all your object files generated by your C Compiler.
    - `exes` will contain all your source c files that become executables.
    - `target` will contain all your deliverable or meaningful deployments. Binaries, Shared Libraries, Static Libraries, tests, etc.
    - `include` will contain all your include files.

5. Add your first feature.

```
> ./nobuild --add hello
[INFO] MKDIRS: include
[INFO] CMD: touch include/hello.h
[INFO] MKDIRS: src/hello
[INFO] CMD: touch src/hello/lib.c
[INFO] MKDIRS: tests
[INFO] CMD: touch tests/hello.c
```

  - this created a new folder in the `src` directory, a test file, an include file, and an empty c file.
  - you will notice that the output has a lot of the same information when we ran `--init`. This is because we are being safe and making sure that those folders exist, if not, they are created. We can suppress `[INFO]` logs by adding `#define NOINFO` at the top of our `nobuild.c` file. The next step will show where, because we arent done with adding a new feature.

6. Modify your `./nobuild.c` accordingly. Use your editor of choice.

> ./nobuild.c
```c
#define NOBUILD_IMPLEMENTATION
#define CFLAGS "-Wall", "-Werror", "-std=c11"
// optionally define NOINFO 
#define NOINFO
#include "./nobuild.h"

int main(int argc, char **argv) {
  FEATURE("hello"); // only required line for this step of tutorial.
  BOOTSTRAP(argc, argv);
  return 0;
}
```

  - sometimes, you might have additional dependencies defined outside of the project like `sdl2` or `boost` or much more commonly, `pthread`. `nobuild` doesn't add this FEATURE automatically to `nobuild.c`. (maybe future releases).
    - here is where you would add extra linking dependencies. `FEATURE("hello","-lpthread");` says, any time you build a deployable, that uses hello, you need to have `pthread` linked with it.

7. Update our include file and library file

> ./include/hello.h
```
#pragma once

int show_hello();
```
> ./src/hello/lib.c
```
int show_hello
```

